#### Self Introduction
1. Tell me about yourself
2. curretly which project you are woking on  - ecommerce microservices
3. what are the tools - git, jenkins, terrafrom &ansible, docker & kubernetes, prometheus & grafana
4. what kind of technology used in the project - java
5. what are the roles and resposibilitie in the current project
    - Creating infrastrcuture for all environement DEV, STAG, PROD server
    - Deployment - Developer develops the code, we use to write dockerfile for that code to deploy.
    - Storing - we store the image using dockerhub.
    - Download dependencies -Ansible is used to download and install the multiple denpendencies in the host at a time.
    - CI/CD - jenkins pipeline is used to automate the entire things.
- Continious Delivery require manual approval before deploying into production. Continous Deployment directly deploys in production.
6. Explain your current CI/CD setup 
- Currently we are using Jenkins for continious integration and continious deployment. we use Github as soucre code repository, we configured git hub webhook that will trigger the jenkins pipeline (Orchestrater) for every commit. The source is GITHUB and the target platform is kubernetes. 
  - Continious Integration
    - These pipeline has multiple stages
        1. Checkout stage - In this stage we checkout the code that user has made
        2. Build & UT stage - We use javac(written in java to build backend) for building and Unit Test Framework in the code repository.
        3. Code Scan - we use sonarqube repository to check the security vulnerability that code is free from any security
        4. Image Build - we use Dockerfile in the git repository to build container image.
        5. Image Scan - we check the binaries(.exe), default packages and base image are free from  vulnerabilities 
        6. Image Push - We push the image to AWS ECR.
    - These are multiple stages that are in continious integration, we write declerative jenkins file pipeline (jenkins groovy scripting) in Jenkis for Orchstrating each of them
- Continous Delivery
    - we use jenkins pipeline and update this image in the kubernetes manifest
    - we push this updated image to git hub repository (different from source code repository) to hold these manifest and host  helm chart repo on github using github pages.
    - we use gitops tools argocd (watch for updates) to deploy the image in kubernetes by pushing any changes made.
7. How do you handle secrets
- Currently iam woking on AWS we use AWS Seceret Manager to store the sensitive information 
- In GitHub there is an option called GitHub actions that stores sensitive info like passwords, secrets and tokens at differnt levels like organisation, repository and repository envi.
    - repository - gh secret set SECRET_NAME
    - environment - gh secret set --env ENV_NAME SECRET_NAME
    - organisation - gh secret set --org ORG_NAME SECRET_NAME
8. what is your Deployment strategy
- We use canary deployment strategy using load balancer where traffic is routed form old version to newversion like 10/90 , 30/70, 505/50, 70/30 and 90/10.
9. what do you do if deployment app is faulty?
- We check with 10/90 if it is working properly with bug free we will increase the traffic else we stop deploying in new version.

7. What are the real time challenges you faced.
- While implementing CI/CD pipeline using jenkis I faced few problems
    1. **Handling Secret Managment** In my previous organisation we had lot of microservice and we need to store more secrets, and we need to reference these secrets in jenkins pipline.
    - we store these secrets using **hashicorp vault** and give reference in jenkins pipeline. In this way handle the secrets and preserve the security. 
    2. **Docker Image** we tried to reduce the size of docker image which is huge and it is concerning w.r.t security.
    - we use **docker multi stage build** and using destory less images we not only reduce the size but also preserved the security by removing the packages that are installed in the images.
    3. **kubernetes pod** My organisation is dealing wiht lot of pods, some pods are consuming more resoure we identified and applied `requests and limits`. When ever I found a pod is consuming more resource I will approch development team and rnquire why it is consuming more and will increase the `limits` as per requirement. 
    4. **kubernetes app**  Deploying applications using kubernetes and ckeck it woking if any of the application goes down or unresponsive and if dont know. **solution** I use to open kubernetes pod and collect logs, if it is java application go to application check the dumps, analize the dumps and approach develop team and solve the issue.
    5. **Terraform** 
6. what are the challanges you have faced in the current project.
    - while deploying the code some times we face challanges, the deployment may get failure in that sitution we use to follow branching strategy create a feature branch from the main branch, in my senario the code will work fine at the developers end but not work on production side, there we found the bug and it will fix by developer but we need to provide branch strategy to them
7. what are branching strategy you are using.
    - current we are using github flow, once the code fixs the bug in the production server in feature branch and the application is working fine, we raise PR to mereg with main branch, this will reviewd by team memebers quality, functionality, need to approve before merging into main brach. Then we raise PR form production to stagging, once it is fixed we raise PR form stagging to Devlopment.
8. Difference between main brach and master branch
    - while create github repo wiht readme file main branch will create, else master branch will create.
9. Monolithic and Microservice
- Monolithic Architecture, the all components of application is tightly bounded and all the component code should write in same language if any component require updation we need to deploy the entire application. Ex: Finacial service like Banking
- Microservice Architecture, the component of applications are autonomous, each component can code with different language, any update in a component can achieve by deploying the service alone not the entire application. Ex: Swiggy
- How do you implement DevOps in you project (5m)
- Write an ansible playbook, doker file, shell script, resource creation using terrafrom.
- Stages in pipeline
- how you are providing dev to prod automatically.
- How do you work with developers and merge the code how it is going from development to production
10. How do you approch desiging a secure and complaint architecture in AWS for a healthtech application, considering the sensitivity of health care data and regulatory requirements?
-  For security and complaince it involves 
    1. VPC for network isolation.
    2. AWS Key managment service (kms) for encryption.
    3. AWS config for complaince monitoring
    - It should adhere to regulatory like HIPAA (Health Insurance Poratabiliy And Accountabilty) to ensure data confidential and integrity.
11. Role of elastic bean stack
    - By abstracting infrastructure details it will simplifies deployment and managment.