#### Linux
- How will give the execution access to root (--root--group--others)
    ```
    mkdir devopspractice
    cd devopspractice
    touch file (will create file)
    chown root file
    ls -al (-rw-rw-r--)
    sudo chmod u+x file
    ls -al (will display -rwxrw-r--)
    ```
- How do you manage and view running  process
```
ps
ps -aux
top (used to check the CPU, Memory of different processor)
free ()
```
- SSH or Secure Shell is secure way to connect the remote linux computer. it is safe through encryption and authentication.
```
ssh username@hostname
ssh -p 2222 username@hostname (connect with port)
ssh -i keyname username@hostname (using pvt key)
```
- cronjob
- cronjob is scheduler in LINUX like OS, It will automate the repetitive task when and how often it should run.
```
crontab -e
select nano
* * * * *
```
- alias command is used save time and reduce type errors.`alias ku='kubectl'`
9. If we forgot the password for git client in local system how do you update
    - For a local system generate guthub token form github
10. Which Linux version you are using in your project.
    - Amazon Linux - use `yum` to install any package
    - Ubuntu - use `apt` to install any package.
    - Both are operating in Linux but the flovour (basic commands) is different
    - Amazon linux will come with default packages like `curl, wget`, but in ubuntu we need to install.
11. Difference between curl and wget
    - wget will downloading files from the internet
    - cure will downloading files and uploading data and suppourts various protocols and check the connection is established.
12. what is awk command in linux.
    - Aho, weinberger and kernighan command, basically used to text file to search the specific pattern in the files performance opertion on the matching lines.
    - Ex: awk '{print $2}' file.text will print second word of each line.
13. How do you check the free space in linux machine.
    - `df -h` or `du -shu path/directory`
14. what are groups in linux
    - Groups is used to add multiple users at a time to access the files.
15. How to check which user belongs to group.
    - id -G -n username -- -G tag retrives all group ids, -n gives name of th group
    - sudo groupadd groupname1
    - sudo useradd username1
    - sudo groupmod -a -U username1 groupnam1
    - sudo groups -- it will list all the groups

16. To remove all file in a folder `rm -rf *`