#### AWS
36. If i lost the pem file of ec2 can i connect to that
- Multiple ways to connect using `ssh-keygen` we can generate `id_rsa` and `id_rsa.pub` and
- we can generate a new pem file and paste the key. 
37. L4 and L7 loadbalancer
    - L4 is network load balancer simple and effective TCP & UDP non http and https traffic
    - L7 is an application load balancer 80-http, 443-https that suppouts redirection that suppourt advance traffic managments
38. NAT Gateway
    - IGW is used to connect the public server where as NAT gateway with Elastic IP is used to connect the private subnet server.
39. Can we connect one vpc to another vpc
    - It is possible by using `vpc peering`
40. what is NACL and SG?
    - SG are statefull firewall it doesnot require seperate ports to open response traffic Ex: EC2, LAMBDA
    - NACL Network Access Control Lists is applicable to subnets only, they are stateless firewall Inbound(Ingress) and outbound(egress) should open.
    - Inbound is connected in one port, Eformal port in NACL the outbould should connect in another port.
41. 
4. expalin the architecture you recently work on
    - It is scalable web based application that varies based on number of users. It includes various service like compute, storage, db, security and monitoring.
    1. Frondend - S3, Amazon CloudFront is used as Content Delivery Network with lowlatency provides SSL/TLS encryption
    2. Backend - ASG, NLB
    3. database layer - Amazon RDS(MYSQL) and DynamoDB
    4. API layer - API Gateway and Lambda
    5. security - WAF and Shield, VPC, Secrets
    6. monitoring and logging - prometheus and grafana
    7. CI/CD. - Jenkins

    - Dataflow
    1. User requested through cloudfront that catches the content from s3 and forewarded to ALB.
    2. ALB distributes the load to ec2.
    3. Ec2 process the request and interact with RDS and Dynomodb(NoSQL)
    4. for specific request API request rooted through API Gateway.
    5. All these are monitored by CloudWatch and CloudTrail set the alarm.
    - Benefits: Scalability, High availability, security, cost efficiency.
5. What is 2/2 check in AWS instance?
    - It is used to check the health of aws instance. The instance must respond wihtin 2-seconds and this must be 2 times in a row. it it unablet to respond it is consider as unhealthy. The instance will automatically terminated

6. what are the different services you worked in aws
    1. compute services - ec2, lambda, ECS, EKS
    2. storage services - S3, EBS, Glacier
    3. Database services - RDS (MySQL, Postgres, oracle), NoSQL
    4. Network and content delivery services - VPC, ELB, Route53, CloudFront
    5. Security Identity and complaince - IAM, Secrete Manager.
    6. Application Integration -SNS
    7. Managment & Governance - CloudWatch (prometheus, grafana)
    8. Developers Tool - CodePipline (jenkins)