- **Terraform** is an infrastructure-as-code tool that provisions and manages infrastructure resources. Terraform is used to codify infrastructure. Terraform scripts are written in the HashiCorp Configuration Language (HCL).
- It will perform on 
    - Existing Resource can be access by `data "type" "name" {}`
    - Creating new resource by using `resource "type" "name" {}`
- what is terraform resources
    - It is a piece of infrastruce with given settings. Depending on settings it will create, modify and destroy the 
0. why do we called terraform as IAC.
    - Infrastructure as code means writing a code that can provision, manage and deploy IT infrastructure. Terraform is an open source that can use HCL, to do using modules it will create, manage resource, so it is called IAC.
1. What are components that created using terraform
    - some of the components that are created using terraform are
        1. resource group
        2. storage account
        3. network security group
        4. application gate ways
2. How do you changes the configuration on already created resource
    - `terraform import` command is used to change the configuration on exsiting resource.
3. what is state file where can you find it and store it.
    - If we run `terraform apply` terraform state file is  created by defaultin the same directory local machine and `terrarform.tfstate`. This is in JSON format that mapping the resource define in configuration that are exists in infrastructure. we can store the state file in aws cloud platfrom in s3 bucket. It contins senstive information and it is highly recommended to stored it in the encrypted database. 
4. If you lost terraform state file how will you resolve the issue.
    - terraform state file will check the configuration and perform the changes in the according to terraform files. If statefile is lost terraform will create a duplicate resource which will result in additional cost and also leads to nasty cross overlapping. To avoid this store the state file in cloud storage or use command called`terraform report`.
5. what is the major feature on terraform you found
    - Terraform can apply on multiple cloud platforms using provider
    - we can use different terraform versions as per our requirement to collaboreate with infrastructure.
    - Terraform state can track your changes through out our requirement.
    - Terraform written in HCL which is human readable can easily understand.
6. terraform validate
    - It will the check the syntax of all the file in the directory and display if any of the file is not validate. It wont check on formating like tab, space. But it will check the duplicate name of moudule.
7. What is Terraform [Lifecycle Meta-Argument?](https://spacelift.io/blog/terraform-resource-lifecycle)
    - It is a nested configuration available in terraform resource block. The Metadata  argument will specify how to handle the creation, modify and destroy a resource
    ```
    resource "type" "name" {
        resource settings
        lifecycle {
           Lifecycle Meta-Argument     
        }
    }
    ```
    - Lifecycle Meta-Argument Example
        1. ignore_changes = true
        2. create_before_destory = true
        3. prevent_destroy = true
        4. replace_triggered_by = true
        5. precondition and postcondition ensure certain condition before and after resource is created.
8. what will you prefer ansible or terraform
    - Both are configuration management tool but terraform has a state file based on the resource configuration, bu it can  not download and install the neccesary plugins required on host server which will be done by ansible. This ansible doesnot have state file, diffcult to create resource. so combing these configuration management tools we can manage resource. Based on requirement we can choose focus on orhestration or managment tool.
9. what will you prefer terraform, bicep, ARM Templates 
    - Bicep is less complexity over ARM template JSON. Terraform consits of state file that contains the configuration of the resources but it is not available with ARM Templates.
10. Lets us consider with 20 resource, can i delete a single resource in public cloud.
    - YES, first we need to check the available list of reosurece `terraform state list`, to delete a resource `terraform destroy --target resource_type.resource_name`.
11. How do you preserve the keys in terraform [link](https://spacelift.io/blog/terraform-secrets)
    - Not storing the secrets in plan text or state file
    - use backend.tf file which consits of s3 storage bucket, region.
    - Use key management service (AWS KMS) encryt senstive data.
    - use environment to store the variable.
    - store the secrets in harshicorp vault and AWS secret manager
    - encrypt the key while displaying through CLI.
    - **Open Tofu** is open source version of terraform that will expand existing terraform concepts and offerings. It is branched form 1.5.6 version.
12. Moduels in terraform [link](https://spacelift.io/blog/what-are-terraform-modules-and-how-do-they-work)
    - Resource is a piece of infrastructure that is going to create (VPC, ec2). Collection of such resource is called module to achieve a reuseable usecase.
    - depending upon written (root and child)
    - depending on publish (local and published)
    - `.tf` files are root modules they can communicate each other, modules available inside the root module is child module.
    - If modules are pushed to terraform registry or Version controll users can access so it is called publish module.
13. Remote Backend
    - Remote backend consists of updated statefile it makes the team to work together because all the members has the access to latest statefile, we s3 bucket to store the statefile.
14. How do we provide variable at runtime
    - we use to do hard code in the `terraform.tfvars` to store the values of `variables.tf`, if we did not hardcoded we can assgin the values while running `terraform apply` in cli.  
15. How can you manage the terraform code in multiple environment
    - we can use terraform workspace `terraform workspace list`. `default` is workspace we can see to create new workspace `terraform workspace new dev`. Terraform module is resuable we can deploy resource in different environment with seperate statefiles.
16. Terraform taint
    - some time we need to recreate a single components or entire componets terraform module. If the object is not fuctioning well we can do `terraform taint "aws_instance.my_vm[0]"`.
17. Drawbacks
    - No error handling
    - It uses only HCL
    - some specific version includes bugs
    - terraform backend files are accessble throught variable files we need backend config is required.