#### Kubernets
1. what is difference between docker and Kubernetes.
    - Docker is a container platform which is very light in weight contains minimal libraries and dependency to run an application. It discuss about the container Life cycle management. Containers are efromal in nature, it is a single point of failure, If a container goes down, the end user application also goes down. Docker Swarm is requried to group the container.
    - Kubernetes is an orchestration platform tool with smallest unit pod that contains one or more containers. It offers Auto Healing, Auto Scalling. As containers are efformal in nature, k8s offers clustering can create pod and reduces the down time. It also suppourts Load Balancing, integration with custom resource definitions like ingress controller.
2. What are the main components of [k8s Architecture](https://www.simform.com/blog/kubernetes-architecture/).
    - Cluster is a combination of control node and worker node, components of these cluster(sever) works collectively to a reliable and adaptable environment for containers in pod.
    - Controll node consists of following components
        1. kube-Control Mananger - It controll the mutilpe thing in masternode. This handles the different controller and keeps the cluster to stay in desired state by creating replicas to the cluster
            - Deployment controller - deploy of multiple replicas of an app running in container.
            - Replica controllers - specific number of pod replicas run always.
            - Statefullset controller - follow ordinal index with statename.
            - Daemonset controller - run one pod on everynode.
        2. kube-api server - It acts as front end of master node. The api-server encrypts the communication between the components of cluster uses TLS to ensure saftey. Authorizaiton and Authentication, Data validation, Manging API request, coordination b/w control node and woker node. An API server works only with etcd, **API Server proxy** is a builtin bastion that user (outside of cluster) can communicate with Cluster IP.
        3. kube Scheduler - using **NodeAffinity** when deploying a pod kube scheduler identifies the best worker node based on the performance requirements like CPU, MEMORY, affinity. This is possible because the etcd store the vital information to run smoothly.
        4. etcd - It is basically written in go language. It is used to store the data in key-value format that include information like pods, states, namespaces. API server uses gRPC(developer allows to create high performance API for micro service arch) to access etcd to maintain security. Statefull component in control plane, etcd is the database for k8s. All objects (deploy.yaml, pod.yml) stored in /registry directory key in key-value format. 
        5. Cloud Control Manager - It integrates the kubernetes cluster with cloud platform API.
         
    - Worker node are the execution units of pod. Each node contain multiple pods, each pod contain one or more containers
        1. kubelet - it act as an agent that register worker node with API server. It creates, modifies, delete the container in the pod, it also do liveliness, readness, mount volume as per configuration and report the node status to API server. Kubelet starts Scheduler, Controll manager, API server in static pods while bootstrap the control plane.
        2. kube-proxy - It contain service and endpoint. Service exposes the pod to traffic, endpoint holds the pod IP address and ports. It create N/W rules to send traffic suppourt TCP, UDP butnot HTTP run daemonset. Service discovery, load balancing and expose traffic are the sevice prime role.
        3. Container-runtime - It is require to run container. It is responsible for pulling images, allocating and isolating containers and also manage life cyle. Container runtime interface (CRI) is resposible for kubernetes to intract with Container runtime. Kubernetes suppourt multiple runtime like CRI-O, Docker Enginee and containerd. Open Container Intiative (OCI) sets standards for container runtime.
3. Does the kubernetes suppourt Docker
    - yes we need to install Docker on every node, instead we can install containerd or CRI-O.

4. what is the main difference between Docker Swarm and kubernetes
    1. Installation: Docker swarm is easy to install but the cluster is not robust. Setting up the Kuberentes it is very complicated but the cluster is robust.
    2. Auto scalling is available in kubernetes, if we deploy update automatically it will get rollback.
    3. Tools like logging and monitoring apart from kubernetes dashboard we can also intergrate prometheus to collect the data from various source, we can montior using grafana to 

    - Docker Swarm is suitable for low level organisation easy to use and install. Kubernetes well suited for large organisation it suppourts sacalling, [network capabilities](https://overcast.blog/choosing-the-right-container-network-interface-plugin-in-kubernetes-45391c7d4cc8) like polices (Container Network Interface Plugin calico, Cilium, Flannel and Weave Net) and third party echo systems.
5. What is the difference between Docker Container and kubernetes Pod.
    - Docker is a containerized platform with single point of failure, it deals with life cycle of container. Kubernetes pod is a **runtime specification of container**, it is the basic unit in kubernetes can declare in yaml file. A worker node containes one or more number of pods, the pod contains one or more number of containers.
6. what is a namespace in kubernetes.
    - Namespace is logical isolation of resources, network and rbac on same cluster. Because of this an application with say 10 microservice can create 10 namespaces, each team independently work without intrepeting others on the same cluster.
7. what is role  of kube proxy 
    - Kube proxy consits of services and endpoints. Service exposes the pod to traffic, endpoint holds the IP address and ports. It creates a set of N/W rules on each of the node to send the traffic, this will update dynamically whenever a service is added or deleted. On every linux machine there is concept called IP Tables, we can configure kube-proxy in different modes by default updates the IP Tables, Using kernel and kubeproxy the user can access the application in the pod with specific nodeport with URL is possible.
8. what is the different types of sevices within kubernetes
  - User can create the following types of services
    - ClusterIP Mode - Service created with clusterIP can be access the service with in the kubernetes cluster.
    - NodePort Mode - If the service is created using nodeport can access by using NODEIP:PORTIP the port ip is defined on yaml file, this is widely used at orgnaisation level who have acces.Ex: k8S is installed in AWS platform if we configured a worker node in AWS-ec2 service can be access, any body can access the service if we ping the ip address.
    - LoadBalaner Mode - The end user (out side of organisation) can access the application, we need expose the service a loadbalancer. The Cloud Controll Manager create a pulic IP address or load balancer ip address using this any body can access.
    - External Name - It is used to map the name to extend the external name by using C-Name record. C-name hepls to map one domain to another domain.
9. what is the difference between Nodeport and LoadBalancer Mode.
10. what is the role of kubelet?
    - kubelet is reponsible for the managne of container in a pod like create, modify, delete. It will update the status to API server with Liveness, mount volume. If a pod goes down kubelet gives the status to API server in turn it will connect the Contoller manger (repicaset controller) will keeps the pod in desired state.
11. Day to Day activity on kubernets.
    - As part of DevOps Engineer role we use to manage kubernetes cluster for our organisation. we ensure the applications are deployed on the cluster and there is no issues with the application, so we have to setup monitoring on kubernetes cluster,
    - we ensure that when ever bugs on the kubernetes when developer are not able to troubleshoot w.r.t some pod, unable to troubleshoot w.r.t some services or unable to route the traffic inside the kubernetes cluster as subject expertise we comes into picture to solve the issue.
    - apart from that we use to do lot of maintaince activity as we have 3 masternode and 10 worker nodes like upgrading versions and installing required packages ensuring that these are free form vulnurabilities.
    - apart from this we offer subject expertise on k8s, if anyone in organisation has any issue with kubernetes they create tickets for us, we use to solve the issues.
12. what is a pod
 - It is smallest unit in kubernets application that can deploy and managed the containers. It represents single instance of running processor of a cluster. Pod is a basic building block of kubernetes cluster. A single pod contains one or more number of containers. kuberenets can manage the lifecyle of pods and thier components.
 13. write a pod manifest
 `kubectl create deployment app1 --image sreeharshav/fastapi:v1 --replicas 6 --dry-run -o yml > deployment.yml` and `kubectl apply -f deployment.yml`.
 - `kubectl expose app1 --port -80 --type Nodeport --dryrun -o -yml > service.yml` and `kubectl apply -f service.yml`
 14. How do you create pods in the project.
 - Using command deploy the n node cluster, intally the cluster dont have pods `kubectl get pods` if you run `kubectl run testpod1 --image nginx:latest` we can see pods that deployed, this pods has unique network identity and communicate with another pod also.
 15. what is statefullset in kubernetes.
 - Each pod in kubernetes satefullset is assigned with stable network identity(hostname) based on `ordinal index` EX: stateful name `mysql` than hostname is `mysql0, mysql1`. 
 - It will follow order while deploying whenever a failure occurs and recreation takes place.
 - This will suppourt persistant volumes (PV) and Persistant volume claims(PVC) to provide stable and persistance storge.

 16. How a company can shift form monolithic service to microservice, and how they club kubernetes in it.
 - Microservices are isolated components that can serve an application they are loosly coupled, if we want to upgrade a compnent it wont effect the entire application like we in monolitic.if we are moving from one server to another server we need an orchestration tool called kubernetes platform. They can start migrate the service one or twice an monitor the servie that every thing is perfect. If every thing goes fine we can migrate the service.

 17. Microservice are isolated it can increase service developed by the developer it makes devops engineer needs to deploy it will increse the work to devops engineer how will you solve.
    - Kubernetes is the soulution. If the company generate a template and application and asked to deploy within 5 minitues, kubernetes manage dozens of micro sevices parallely which imporves the production in a day. If a node goes down it will autoscal, roling get update, it wont effect the performance, in this way kubernets help the devops guy no need to check manually using rollbacks.

18. How to use sk8s to achive optimize distribution workload on legacy systems.
    - k8s is an orchestration uses load balancing the workoad, if the node with heavy traffic load it will kill automatically and crate new pod withou downtime.
19. load balancer in k8s
    - There are two types of loadbalancer Internal and External LB.
    - In internal LB work is distributed among the pods of a single node
    - In external LB work is distrubuted among the nodes in a cluster.
20. what is the purpose of operater in k8s.
    - If i want to create an open search we need to go to helm charts and run some set of commands then `open search` clustr will create but in k8s there is solution called operators, it will help to automate the deployment, this will create `open search`all the things require to deploy we dont want do it manaully run each and every resource. 
21. How will you imporve security in k8s
    - By default the pods can communicate each other, we need to setup network policy between these pods, we can achieve by following ways
    1. RBAC - RBAC API declears four types of k8s object applied on apiGroups, resources and verbs
        - Role - with in namespace
        - ClusterRole
        - RoleBinding - grants permission define on role to a user or set of users.
        - ClusterRoleBinding.
    2. create namespace and give permission
    3. create policy for previlige container that no other pod can communicate.
    4. turn on audit logging
    5. Protect etcd with TLS 
22. How to get central logs from any pod
    - we need to use `deamonset controller`, we can get node label logging agent
    - we use grafana dash board if i want to get logs for the past 10 or 30 days we can integrate with k8s and get the logs.
    - streaming sidecar containers along with primary conatainer, provides additional service like logging, montoring, security and data synchronisation with out alerting the primary application code. 
23. what is ingress defalut backend
    - It sepecfies what should do with the incomming request to kubernets cluster that doesnot map to backend. suppose a request say http, rule is not specified with port number or node to schedule the request, the ingress by default will come in to use it will specify where it is to schedule, it is recommended to define the rules like port number.
24. How will you trouble should a pod is not runnig
    - we need to check the logs `kubectl describe pod -n namespacename` and check the details like replicas, resource like CPU, MEMORY.
25. How we can forward the port 8080 consider it a Container - Service - Ingress - Browser
    - Bydefault the ingress will listen to port 80
    `kubectl port-forward pod/mypod 8080:80`
26. Rolling update steps 
27. Difference between metrics and traces.
- [Kubernetes ingress and ingress controller](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WBnF0yITFmo)