#### Jenkins
- Continious Delivery require manual approval before deploying into production. Continous Deployment directly deploys in production.
1. Explain your current CI/CD setup 
- Currently we are using Jenkins for continious integration and continious deployment. we use Github as soucre code repository, we configured git hub webhook that will trigger the jenkins pipeline (Orchestrater) for every commit. The source is GITHUB and the target platform is kubernetes. 
  - Continious Integration
    - These pipeline has multiple stages
        1. Checkout stage - In this stage we checkout the code that user has made
        2. Build & UT stage - We use javac(written in java to build backend) for building and Unit Test Framework in the code repository.
        3. Code Scan - we use sonarqube repository to check the security vulnerability that code is free from any security
        4. Image Build - we use Dockerfile in the git repository to build container image.
        5. Image Scan - we check the binaries(.exe), default packages and base image are free from  vulnerabilities 
        6. Image Push - We push the image to AWS ECR.
    - These are multiple stages that are in continious integration, we write declerative jenkins file pipeline (jenkins groovy scripting) in Jenkis for Orchstrating each of them
- Continous Delivery
    - we use jenkins pipeline and update this image in the kubernetes manifest
    - we push this updated image to git hub repository (different from source code repository) to hold these manifest and host  helm chart repo on github using github pages.
    - we use gitops tools argocd (watch for updates) to deploy the image in kubernetes by pushing any changes made.

10. Jenkins setup, Backup and Scalling up
- To setup jenkins using bash script install java and current long term suppourt command
- Jenkin is on AWS we have AutoScalling we employed predective scalling on AWS. Once it scaled up jenkins uses SSH to intract with the newly created onces.
- Jenkins has .backup folder using cronjobs we periodically backup the files.
- Backup

11. what is jenkins controller and jenkins agent [link](https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/getting-started/)
- An agent is machine a bare-meatal, VM, Container or cloud execute the task directed by the controller.
    - Purpose of Jenkins controller is to adminstrtion connections and tooling for the agents 
    - Any machine that run java can be jenkins agent. For secuity and performance jenkins agent is used to perform jobs, not to do any jobs directly on controller.
18. Master and Slave in Jenkins
    - Mater node is used to manage the slave instance, suppouse 100 builds need to run if it is done in master then it will cause performance issue, the master will distrubute the jobs to slave to perform the tasks. 
19. If Master node is failed what will happen.
    - First we need to check the reason for its failure issues like connectivity, Volume is extended or not. If Master is failed the jobs in slave wont get effected but we lost control/manage over the slave, in order to avoid this we need to keep backup.
20. If Master is down how we can run the jobs
    - we can acces the path /var/lib/jenkins/ and find the jobs and we can take the backup from the existing server, taking the volumes and associate with the new server and can set the jenkins in nwe instance.
21. syntax
    pipeline{
        agent any
        stages{
            stage ('stage1){
                steps{
                    echo "This is stage 1"
                }
            }
            stage (stage2){
                steps {
                    echo "This is stage 2"
                }
            }
        }
        post{
            
        }
    }
22. Different stage in jenkins pipeline
    - checkoutstage - get code form the source repo
    - Build and UT
    - code scan
    - build image
    - image scan
    - image push
    - deploy in preproduction server
    - test the code
    - deploy to production server
23. What if i give same build name for the different stages
    - Build will fail and throw an error stage alreafy exists
24. Suppose the first stage get failed what happen to other stages
    - Depends on the configuration, based on `post build actions`
        - success -
        - failure - if any stage got failure it wont execute the other stages.
        - always - even a stage got failed the other stages will execute.
25. what plugins that you are used in jenkins
    - Thinbackup - for backups
    - Deploy to container - to deploy to tomcat web servers
    - Roll based authenication - to give authentication for users.
    - nexus - to store arifacts.
    - publish over ssh
26. How to tigger one job to other job
    - UI option - In jenkins dashboard choose `Build after other job is build`.
    - we can use when option to trigger particular stage
    when{
        expression{
            "${env.variable}" = "YES"
        }
    }