#### Why to use MLOps
- MLOps makes the machine learning projects easy to maintain and scale.
    - Automation - Automates the repetetive task like data preparation, train model and deployment.
    - Collaboration - Collboration between datascientist, machine learning engineer and IT Development work together and keep everything organised.
    - Consistency - To make the ML Models to work well in both development and real-world
    - Monitoring and improving - Monitor models after deployment for smooth running when there is an update in data and retrain the model.
#### what is MLOps
    - Train the model
    - Deploy the application
    - Monitor the performance
    - Update automatically when needed.
#### How MLOps works
    - Data Preparation - collect, clean and organize data for traning a model.
    - Model Training - Once data is prepared MLOps will train on different models and choose the best.- Model Deployment - Once best model is selected and use it in the real world and make the predictions or decision.
    - Monitor - MLOps will monitor the model performance wheter is works fine with new data
    - ModelUpdating - If performance is degrading, MLOps will automatically do data preparation, choose best model, deploy model in real world, and evaluate the performance.
#### Tools and Platforms for MLOps
1. AWS - sagemaker - Offers end-to-end MLOps capabilities, including data labeling, training, deployment, and monitoring.
2. Azure Machine Learning - building, training, and deploying models with built-in support for MLOps.
3. GCP 
    - kubeflow - An open-source project designed to manage ML pipelines on Kubernetes, also integrated with GCP.
    - Vertex AI: GCP's managed service for end-to-end MLops, from data preparation to model deployment and monitoring.
#### Challenges of MLOps:
1. Complexity - dealing with large data sets, diverse models, and multiple environments.
2. Data drift - changes in data leads to performance drop need continious monitoring
3. Skill Gap - Combination of data scientist, ML Engineer and DevOps require