\item 4 years of IT experience have provided me with substantial knowledge and competence in Build and Release engineering.
\item Proficient in Bash Shell Scripting and automation using Python, installing operating systems with strong knowledge of Linux Server Ubuntu, and Powershell.
\item GIT administration activities include repository creation, managing users, performing branching, tagging, merging activities.
\item Jenkins includes expertise in creating and managing pipelines, as well as configuring web hooks to trigger them. Experience in administrating Jenkins, plugin installation, master/slave or distributed build setup
\item Implementing Terraform for seamless AWS infrastructure as code practices, and optimizing the infrastructure for  reliability, scalability, security, and performance for provisioning and management. 
\item Strong expertise in AWS services IAM, S3, EC2, ECS, LAMBDA, RDS, SNS, VPC, Subnets, Security Groups CloudForamtion services etc. and Visual Studio.
\item I am experienced in writing playbooks in Ansible and managing the nodes. Management as code using Packer.
\item Good knowledge in creating images, containers, and Docker files for different environments in Docker.
\item Good knowledge in containerization technologies such as Docker container deployment and scaling with Kubernetes orchestration, experience with Helm and Setting up Kubernetes Cluster Using AWS KOPS. 
\item Prometheus and Grafana are used to set up monitoring and alerting of K8s, focusing on performance metrics and Status. 
\item Excellent debugging and troubleshooting problems and applications to ensure high availability. Ensuring quality of product, security and compliance requirements.
\item Experience in working with industry best practices on AWS and Azure DevOps, creating resource groups and configuring app services, storage accounts, containers, and VPCs via Terraform scripts.
\item Configuring build \& release pipelines in Azure DevOps to deploy the packages in dev, qa, uat, and prod environments.
\item Hands-on experience with networking, including VPN configuration and management. Working knowledge of relational databases RDS, MongoDB, and SQL.
\item Technical expert on continuous integration and continuous delivery practices, with a focus on CI/CD pipelines for continuous improvement.
\item Collaborative team spirit and communication within teams. Experienced in project management and Scrum, agile approaches, maintain culture of collaboration, understanding of software development methodologies.
\item Strong problem-solving and decision making skills, ensuring efficient cloud infrastructure and containerization management, disaster recovery and cloud migration.
\item Knowledgeable in microservices architecture, IaaS and understanding business processes.
\item Collaborate with domain experts, Committed to continuous learning strategy and improvement within the field of information technology and active participation in defining technical roadmaps, Stay current with industry trends, passionate about building scalable and robust tools.
