- With 4 years of IT experience, I have accumulated substantial knowledge and competence in Build and Release engineering.
- Administration activities include GIT repository creation, managing users, performing branching, tagging, and merging activities, and configuring web hooks to trigger the Jenkins pipeline.
- I am proficient in creating and managing Jenkins pipelines using shared libraries.
- Strong working knowledge of Linux and automating scripts using Python and Bash.
- Leveraged Terraform to provide and maintain AWS infrastructure as code in an automated manner.
- I am experienced in writing playbooks in Ansible and managing the nodes.
- Good knowledge in creating images, containers, and Docker files for different environments in Docker.
- Managed Docker container deployment and scaling with Kubernetes orchestration using Helm.
- Well-versed in Prometheus and Grafana for effective monitoring and alerting, focusing on performance metrics.
- Experience in working with AWS and Azure DevOps, creating resource groups and configuring app services, storage accounts, containers, and VPCs via Terraform scripts.
- Configuring build & release pipelines in Azure DevOps to deploy the packages in dev, qa, uat, and prod environments.
- Perform administrative processes for cloud systems, including installation, backup, security, array management, and software patching, ensuring compliance.
- Hands-on experience with networking, including VPN configuration and management.
- Proficient in continuous integration and continuous improvement practices, with a focus on CI/CD pipelines.
- Adept in project management and agile methodologies, facilitating effective collaboration and communication within teams.
- Strong problem-solving and decision making skills, ensuring efficient cloud infrastructure and containerization management.
- Skilled in automated testing, unit testing, performance testing, and working with APIs.
- Sound knowledge of microservices architecture and IaaS.
- Committed to continuous learning and improvement within the field of information technology.
- Familiar with network protocols and standards like HTTP, REST, SSL.