
- Project # 1:  
- Role    	              : Sr. Software Engineer
- Project                 : Lereta
- DevOps Tools            : Azure DevOps, Terraform, Sonarqube, New Relic, Kubernetes
- Responsibilities:
    - Created and configured AWS resources like app services, SQL databases, SQL server, svnets, and subnets via Terraform scripts.
    - Achieved a 30% reduction in cloud infrastructure costs by optimizing resource usage and implementing cost-effective solutions.
    - Creating repositories, branches, tags, and pipelines in Azure DevOps.
    - Configuring the Sonarqube and code coverage tasks in Azure DevOps build pipelines.
    - Developed and designed Azure DevOps pipelines to manage resources across multiple organizations in AWS.
    - Monitoring the build and release pipelines and informing the Developers on successful deployment in dev, qa and uat environments.
    
    - Granting access to developers to the respective repositories and helping the developers in the merge conflicts.
    - Automated various infrastructure activities like continuous deployment, environment configuration files, users, and packages.


- Project # 2:  
- Role    	              : Software Associate     
- Project                  : Intel SWDC 
- DevOps Tools           : Artifactory, /GIT, Jenkins, Ansible, Docker, AWS
- Environment            : Linux, Windows
- Responsibilities: 
    - Created repositories and provided access to the requested users in Artifactory.
    - I worked on Docker container snapshots, attaching to a running container, removing images, and managing containers.
    - Created the pipelines in Jenkins that involve the automated build and deployment to respective environments and troubleshooted the build issues.
    - Used Ansible as a configuration management tool to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploy critical applications, and proactively manage changes.
    - Maintained 99% uptime for critical applications through effective monitoring.
    - Involved in the creation of war files and deployed them on the application server.
    - Handling 24 x 7 I worked as a shift roaster, responding to calls as needed.

- Terrafrom, Docker,  DevOps, jenkins, CI/CD, Kubernetes, 
- How do you implement DevOps in you project (5m)
- What is your branching strategy 
- How do you work with developers and merge the code how it is going from development to production
- Write an ansible playbook, doker file, shell script, resource creation using terrafrom.
- Stages in pipeline
- how you are providing dev to prod automatically.
- Is there any Diaster recovery 


#### Explanation
PROJECTS UNDERTAKEN:

Project # 1:
           Client	             : MGM Healthcare
            Team size	:	3
            Role	             : AWS & DevOps Engineer
            Duration	: 2 Years

Responsibilities:
Setup/Managing Linux Servers/ Windows server / Ubuntu servers on Amazon EC2.
Setup/Managing Databases on Amazon RDS. Monitoring servers through Amazon CloudWatch, SNS.
Creating/Managing DNS records on Amazon Route 53 and go-daddy panel.
Uses Terraform for creating new infrastructure or to modify an existing infrastructure (Infra as a code)
Creating/Managing AMI/Snapshots/Volumes, Upgrade/downgrade AWS resources (CPU, Memory, EBS)
Used Ansible to do configuration and to automate deployments
Maintain system availability as per multiple Service Level Agreements (SLA).
Worked on creating Kubernetes cluster from end to end.
Managing the services within AWS and global IT infrastructure.
Manage and configure AWS services as per the business needs (ELB, Route53, S3, CloudWatch, IAM, VPC)
Handling L1 and L2 level issues, involved in the client calls, done several deployments, Client handling and resolving the tickets.
Worked on Pod Creation and managing Containers
Implemented continuous delivery pipeline involving Jenkins, Ansible to complete the automation from commit to deployment
Assisted developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, labeling convection's using GIT source control
Implemented and supported CI process via Jenkins
Administrated and Implemented CI tools Jenkins for automated builds and also integrating Unit tests and Code Quality Analysis Tools like SonarQube
Hands on working experience on Web Server (Apache), Application Servers (Tomcat, JBoss), DB Server (MySQL)
Documented the entire installation process for various tools and provided on-call support.



Project # 2:
         Client	       : Genisys
         Team size	       :	2
         Role	       : AWS & DevOps Engineer
         Duration	       : 2 Years




Responsibilities:

Manage and configure AWS services as per the business needs (AWS Lambda, SQS, CloudFront, EC2, ELB, RDS, S3, IAM)
From last 10 months, I was involved in Migration Project from On-Prem VMs to AWS.
Automated the environment creation (VPC Setup) using Terraform.
Have a basic understanding of Kubernetes architecture.
Strong ability to troubleshoot any issues generated while building, deploying and in production support and schedule and run tasks in background using Crontab.
Experienced in creating complex IAM policies, Roles and user management for access within AWS.
Experienced in creating complex caching and routing policies with content delivery network (CDN) using CloudFront to improve the page speed.
Implemented the setup for master slave architecture to improve the performance of Jenkins.
Experience with build tools   Maven for writing pom.xml for new applications and improvising the existing build scripts.
Supported Dev team with troubleshooting build failures and Artifactory repository maintenance in Nexus Artifactory.
Knowledge of Configuration management tool, Ansible to deploy critical applications, automates repetitive tasks and proactively manages changes.
Created, modified and customized playbook modules to fit in infrastructure requirements.
Monitoring AWS resources & set up notification alarm in case of trouble through Cloud Watch.
Created volumes and attach volumes on to EC2 instances.
Experience in setting up the security groups to associated EC2 instances in the VPC.
Provided periodic feedback of status and scheduling issues to the management
Setup Monitoring tool to Monitor Production Servers logs using Splunk
    